src/adhocracy_core/docs/assets_and_images.rst, before:

Assets and Images
=================

Introduction
------------

*Assets* are files of arbitrary type that can be uploaded to and downloaded
from the backend. From the viewpoint of the backend, they are just "blobs"
-- binary objects without any specific semantic.

*Images* are a subtype of assets; they an be resized and cropped to
different target formats.

To manage assets, the backend has the `adhocracy_core.resources.asset.IAsset`
resource type, which is a special kind of *Pool.*

Assets can be uploaded to an *asset pool.* Resources that provide an asset
pool implement the `adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IHasAssetPool` sheet, which
has a single field:

:asset_pool: path to the asset pool where assets can be posted

The `adhocracy_core.resources.asset.IAsset` resource type provides three
sheets:

* `adhocracy_core.sheets.metadata.IMetadata`: provided by all resources,
  automatically created and updated by the backend
* `adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetMetadata` with only one read-write field:

  :mime_type: the MIME type of the asset; must be specified by the frontend,
      but the backend will sanity-check the posted data and reject the asset
      in case of an detectable mismatch (e.g. if the frontend posts a Word file
      but gives "image/jpeg" as MIME type). Not all mismatches will be
      detectable, e.g. different "text/" subtypes can be hard to distinguish.

  All other following fields are read-only, they are automatically created and
  updated by the backend:

  :size: the size of the asset (in bytes)
  :filename: the name of the file uploaded by the frontend (in the backend,
      the asset will have a different, auto-generated path)
  :attached_to: a list of backreferences pointing to resources that refer
      to the asset

* `adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData` with a single field:

  :data: the binary data of the asset ("blob")

  This sheet is POST/PUT-only, see below on how to download/view the binary
  data.

For testing, we import the needed stuff and start the Adhocracy testapp::

    >>> from pprint import pprint
    >>> from adhocracy_core.testing import god_header
    >>> from webtest import TestApp
    >>> app = getfixture('app_with_filestorage')
    >>> testapp = TestApp(app)
    >>> rest_url = 'http://localhost'

We need a pool with an asset pool::

    >>> data = {'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.asset.IPoolWithAssets',
    ...        'data': {'adhocracy_core.sheets.name.IName': {
    ...                     'name':  'ProposalPool'}}}
    >>> resp_data = testapp.post_json(rest_url + '/adhocracy', data,
    ...                               headers=god_header).json
    >>> proposal_pool_path = resp_data['path']
    >>> proposal_pool_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/'

We can ask the pool for the location of the asset pool::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(proposal_pool_path).json
    >>> asset_pool_path = resp_data['data'][
    ...         'adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IHasAssetPool']['asset_pool']
    >>> asset_pool_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/assets/'


Asset Subtypes, MIME Type Validators, and Images Size Mappers
-------------------------------------------------------------

Note: this section is mostly backend-specific.

The generic `adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetMetadata` sheet doesn't limit
the MIME type of assets. Since this is rarely desirable, it is considered
abstract and cannot be instantiated -- only subclasses that provide a *MIME
Type Validator* can. Check out the `adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image` module
for an example of how to do that.

To prevent confusing the frontend, you should also define a subclass of the
`adhocracy_core.resources.asset.IAsset` resource type that uses the subclassed
sheet instead of the generic one. See `adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image`
for an example.

In the examples that follow, we will use the subclassed example resource type
and sheet.

The backend can resize and crop images to different target formats. To do
this, add an `image_sizes` field to the metadata of your subclassed sheet.
`adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image` shows how to do that too. For example,
if we have::

    image_sizes={'thumbnail': Dimensions(width=100, height=50),
                 'detail': Dimensions(width=500, height=250)},

This means that the image will be made available in 'thumbnail' and in
'detail' size, each with the specified dimensions, as well as in its original
(raw) size.

The image will be automatically resized to all of the specified sizes. If
the target aspect ratio is different from the original aspect ratio, the size
that is wider/higher is cropped so that only the middle part of it remains.
For example, if the original image has 1500x500 pixel and the target size is
500x250 ('detail' size in the above example), it will be scaled to 50%
(750x250 pixel) and then 125 pixel to the left and 125 to the right will be
cropped to reach the target size.


Uploading Assets
----------------

Assets are uploaded (POST) and updated (PUT) in a special way. Instead of
sending a JSON document, the field names and values are flattened into
key/value pairs that are sent as a "multipart/form-data" request. Hence, the
request will have keys similar to the following:

:content_type: the type of the resource that shall be created, e.g.
    "adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage"
:data\:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetMetadata\:mime_type: the MIME type of
    the uploaded file, e.g. "image/jpeg"
:data\:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData\:data: the binary data of the
    uploaded file, as per the HTML `<input type="file" name="asset">` tag.

But note that a concrete subsheet must be used instead of the generic
IAssetMetadata sheet, matching the given resource type.

For example, lets upload a little picture and create a proposal version that
references it. But first we have to create a proposal::

    >>> prop_data = {'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_proposal.IProposal',
    ...              'data': {
    ...                  'adhocracy_core.sheets.name.IName': {
    ...                      'name': 'kommunismus'}
    ...                      }
    ...             }
    >>> resp = testapp.post_json(proposal_pool_path, prop_data, headers=god_header)
    >>> prop_path = resp.json["path"]
    >>> prop_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/'
    >>> prop_v0_path = resp.json['first_version_path']
    >>> prop_v0_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/VERSION_0000000/'

Now we can upload a sample picture::

    >>> upload_files = [('data:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData:data',
    ...     'python.jpg', open('docs/source/_static/python.jpg', 'rb').read())]
    >>> request_body = {
    ...    'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage',
    ...    'data:adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata:mime_type':
    ...        'image/jpeg'}
    >>> resp_data = testapp.post(asset_pool_path, request_body,
    ...             headers=god_header, upload_files=upload_files).json

In response, the backend sends a JSON document with the resource type and
path of the new resource (just as with other resource types)::

    >>> resp_data["content_type"]
    'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage'
    >>> pic_path = resp_data["path"]
    >>> pic_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/assets/0000000/'


Downloading Assets
------------------

Assets can be downloaded in different ways:

  * As a JSON document containing just the metadata
  * As raw document containing the uploaded "blob"
  * In case of images, in one of the cropped sizes defined by the
    ImageSizeMapper

The frontend can retrieve the JSON metadata by GETting the resource path of
the asset::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path).json
    >>> resp_data['content_type']
    'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage'
    >>> resp_data['data']['adhocracy_core.sheets.metadata.IMetadata']['modification_date']
    '20...'
    >>> pprint(resp_data['data']['adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata'])
    {'attached_to': [],
     'filename': 'python.jpg',
     'mime_type': 'image/jpeg',
     'size': '159041'}

The actual binary data is *not* part of that JSON document::

    >>> 'adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData' in resp_data['data']
    False

To retrieve the raw uploaded data, the frontend must instead GET the `raw`
child of the asset::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path + 'raw')
    >>> resp_data.content_type
    'image/jpeg'
    >>> original_size = len(resp_data.body)
    >>> original_size
    159041

In case of images, it can retrieve the image in one of the predefined
cropped sizes by asking for one of the keys defined by the ImageSizeMapper as
child element::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path + 'detail')
    >>> resp_data.content_type
    'image/jpeg'
    >>> detail_size = len(resp_data.body)
    >>> detail_size > 10000
    True
    >>> detail_size < original_size
    True


Referring to Assets
-------------------

Sheets can have fields that refer to assets of a specific type. This is done
in the usual way be setting the type of the field to `Reference` (to refer
to a single asset) or `UniqueReferences` (to refer to a list of assets) and
defining a suitable `reftype` (e.g. with `target_isheet =
ISampleImageMetadata`).

Lets post a new proposal version that refers to the image::

    >>> vers_data = {'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_proposal.IProposalVersion',
    ...              'data': {'adhocracy_core.sheets.document.IDocument': {
    ...                     'title': 'We need more pics!',
    ...                     'description': 'Or maybe just nicer ones?',
    ...                     'picture': pic_path,
    ...                     'elements': []},
    ...                  'adhocracy_core.sheets.versions.IVersionable': {
    ...                     'follows': [prop_v0_path]}},
    ...          'root_versions': [prop_v0_path]}
    >>> resp = testapp.post_json(prop_path, vers_data, headers=god_header)
    >>> prop_v1_path = resp.json["path"]
    >>> prop_v1_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/VERSION_0000001/'

If we re-download the image metadata, we see that it is now attached to the
proposal version::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path).json
    >>> resp_data['data']['adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata']['attached_to']
    ['http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/VERSION_0000001/']


Replacing Assets
----------------

To upload a new version of an asset, the frontend sends a PUT request with
enctype="multipart/form-data" to the asset URL. The PUT request may contain
the same keys as a POST request used to create a new asset.

The `data:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData:data` key is required,
since the only use case for a PUT request is uploading a new version of the
binary data (everything else is just metadata).

The `data:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetMetadata:mime_type` may be
omitted if the new MIME type is the same as the old one.

If the `content_type` key is given, is *must* be identical to the current
content type of the asset (changing the type of resources is generally not
allowed).

Only those who have *editor* rights for an asset can PUT a replacement asset.
If an image is replaced, all its cropped sizes will be automatically
updated as well.

Since assets aren't versioned, the old binary "blob" will be physically and
irreversibly discarded once a replacement blob is uploaded.

Lets replace the uploaded python with another one::

    >>> upload_files = [('data:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData:data',
    ...     'python2.jpg', open('docs/source/_static/python2.jpg', 'rb').read())]
    >>> request_body = {
    ...    'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage',
    ...    'data:adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata:mime_type':
    ...        'image/jpeg'}
    >>> resp_data = testapp.put(pic_path, request_body,
    ...             headers=god_header, upload_files=upload_files).json

If we download the image metadata again, we see that filename and size have
changed accordingly::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path).json
    >>> pprint(resp_data['data']['adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata'])
    {'attached_to': ['http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/VERSION_0000001/'],
     'filename': 'python2.jpg',
     'mime_type': 'image/jpeg',
     'size': '112107'}

Predefined scaled+cropped views are automatically updated as well::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path + 'detail')
    >>> len(resp_data.body) > 10000
    True
    >>> len(resp_data.body) == detail_size
    False


Deleting and Hiding Assets
--------------------------

Assets can be deleted or censored ("hidden") in the usual way, see
:ref:`deletion`.

TODO Add example testing this using delete (also for children).

Commit message:

Prevent upload of overly large assets

src/adhocracy_core/docs/assets_and_images.rst, after:

Assets and Images
=================

Introduction
------------

*Assets* are files of arbitrary type that can be uploaded to and downloaded
from the backend. From the viewpoint of the backend, they are just "blobs"
-- binary objects without any specific semantic.

*Images* are a subtype of assets; they an be resized and cropped to
different target formats.

To manage assets, the backend has the `adhocracy_core.resources.asset.IAsset`
resource type, which is a special kind of *Pool.*

Assets can be uploaded to an *asset pool.* Resources that provide an asset
pool implement the `adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IHasAssetPool` sheet, which
has a single field:

:asset_pool: path to the asset pool where assets can be posted

The `adhocracy_core.resources.asset.IAsset` resource type provides three
sheets:

* `adhocracy_core.sheets.metadata.IMetadata`: provided by all resources,
  automatically created and updated by the backend
* `adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetMetadata` with only one read-write field:

  :mime_type: the MIME type of the asset; must be specified by the frontend,
      but the backend will sanity-check the posted data and reject the asset
      in case of an detectable mismatch (e.g. if the frontend posts a Word file
      but gives "image/jpeg" as MIME type). Not all mismatches will be
      detectable, e.g. different "text/" subtypes can be hard to distinguish.

  All other following fields are read-only, they are automatically created and
  updated by the backend:

  :size: the size of the asset (in bytes)
  :filename: the name of the file uploaded by the frontend (in the backend,
      the asset will have a different, auto-generated path)
  :attached_to: a list of backreferences pointing to resources that refer
      to the asset

* `adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData` with a single field:

  :data: the binary data of the asset ("blob")

  This sheet is POST/PUT-only, see below on how to download/view the binary
  data.

For testing, we import the needed stuff and start the Adhocracy testapp::

    >>> from pprint import pprint
    >>> from adhocracy_core.testing import god_header
    >>> from webtest import TestApp
    >>> app = getfixture('app_with_filestorage')
    >>> testapp = TestApp(app)
    >>> rest_url = 'http://localhost'

We need a pool with an asset pool::

    >>> data = {'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.asset.IPoolWithAssets',
    ...        'data': {'adhocracy_core.sheets.name.IName': {
    ...                     'name':  'ProposalPool'}}}
    >>> resp_data = testapp.post_json(rest_url + '/adhocracy', data,
    ...                               headers=god_header).json
    >>> proposal_pool_path = resp_data['path']
    >>> proposal_pool_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/'

We can ask the pool for the location of the asset pool::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(proposal_pool_path).json
    >>> asset_pool_path = resp_data['data'][
    ...         'adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IHasAssetPool']['asset_pool']
    >>> asset_pool_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/assets/'


Asset Subtypes, MIME Type Validators, and Images Size Mappers
-------------------------------------------------------------

Note: this section is mostly backend-specific.

The generic `adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetMetadata` sheet doesn't limit
the MIME type of assets. Since this is rarely desirable, it is considered
abstract and cannot be instantiated -- only subclasses that provide a *MIME
Type Validator* can. Check out the `adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image` module
for an example of how to do that.

To prevent confusing the frontend, you should also define a subclass of the
`adhocracy_core.resources.asset.IAsset` resource type that uses the subclassed
sheet instead of the generic one. See `adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image`
for an example.

In the examples that follow, we will use the subclassed example resource type
and sheet.

The backend can resize and crop images to different target formats. To do
this, add an `image_sizes` field to the metadata of your subclassed sheet.
`adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image` shows how to do that too. For example,
if we have::

    image_sizes={'thumbnail': Dimensions(width=100, height=50),
                 'detail': Dimensions(width=500, height=250)},

This means that the image will be made available in 'thumbnail' and in
'detail' size, each with the specified dimensions, as well as in its original
(raw) size.

The image will be automatically resized to all of the specified sizes. If
the target aspect ratio is different from the original aspect ratio, the size
that is wider/higher is cropped so that only the middle part of it remains.
For example, if the original image has 1500x500 pixel and the target size is
500x250 ('detail' size in the above example), it will be scaled to 50%
(750x250 pixel) and then 125 pixel to the left and 125 to the right will be
cropped to reach the target size.


Uploading Assets
----------------

Assets are uploaded (POST) and updated (PUT) in a special way. Instead of
sending a JSON document, the field names and values are flattened into
key/value pairs that are sent as a "multipart/form-data" request. Hence, the
request will have keys similar to the following:

:content_type: the type of the resource that shall be created, e.g.
    "adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage"
:data\:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetMetadata\:mime_type: the MIME type of
    the uploaded file, e.g. "image/jpeg"
:data\:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData\:data: the binary data of the
    uploaded file, as per the HTML `<input type="file" name="asset">` tag.

But note that a concrete subsheet must be used instead of the generic
IAssetMetadata sheet, matching the given resource type.

For example, lets upload a little picture and create a proposal version that
references it. But first we have to create a proposal::

    >>> prop_data = {'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_proposal.IProposal',
    ...              'data': {
    ...                  'adhocracy_core.sheets.name.IName': {
    ...                      'name': 'kommunismus'}
    ...                      }
    ...             }
    >>> resp = testapp.post_json(proposal_pool_path, prop_data, headers=god_header)
    >>> prop_path = resp.json["path"]
    >>> prop_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/'
    >>> prop_v0_path = resp.json['first_version_path']
    >>> prop_v0_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/VERSION_0000000/'

Now we can upload a sample picture::

    >>> upload_files = [('data:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData:data',
    ...     'python.jpg', open('docs/source/_static/python.jpg', 'rb').read())]
    >>> request_body = {
    ...    'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage',
    ...    'data:adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata:mime_type':
    ...        'image/jpeg'}
    >>> resp_data = testapp.post(asset_pool_path, request_body,
    ...             headers=god_header, upload_files=upload_files).json

In response, the backend sends a JSON document with the resource type and
path of the new resource (just as with other resource types)::

    >>> resp_data["content_type"]
    'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage'
    >>> pic_path = resp_data["path"]
    >>> pic_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/assets/0000000/'

If the frontend tries to upload an asset that is overly large (more than 16
MB), the backend responds with an error. Stricter size limits may be
appropriate for some asset types, but they are left to the frontend.


Downloading Assets
------------------

Assets can be downloaded in different ways:

  * As a JSON document containing just the metadata
  * As raw document containing the uploaded "blob"
  * In case of images, in one of the cropped sizes defined by the
    ImageSizeMapper

The frontend can retrieve the JSON metadata by GETting the resource path of
the asset::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path).json
    >>> resp_data['content_type']
    'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage'
    >>> resp_data['data']['adhocracy_core.sheets.metadata.IMetadata']['modification_date']
    '20...'
    >>> pprint(resp_data['data']['adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata'])
    {'attached_to': [],
     'filename': 'python.jpg',
     'mime_type': 'image/jpeg',
     'size': '159041'}

The actual binary data is *not* part of that JSON document::

    >>> 'adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData' in resp_data['data']
    False

To retrieve the raw uploaded data, the frontend must instead GET the `raw`
child of the asset::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path + 'raw')
    >>> resp_data.content_type
    'image/jpeg'
    >>> original_size = len(resp_data.body)
    >>> original_size
    159041

In case of images, it can retrieve the image in one of the predefined
cropped sizes by asking for one of the keys defined by the ImageSizeMapper as
child element::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path + 'detail')
    >>> resp_data.content_type
    'image/jpeg'
    >>> detail_size = len(resp_data.body)
    >>> detail_size > 10000
    True
    >>> detail_size < original_size
    True


Referring to Assets
-------------------

Sheets can have fields that refer to assets of a specific type. This is done
in the usual way be setting the type of the field to `Reference` (to refer
to a single asset) or `UniqueReferences` (to refer to a list of assets) and
defining a suitable `reftype` (e.g. with `target_isheet =
ISampleImageMetadata`).

Lets post a new proposal version that refers to the image::

    >>> vers_data = {'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_proposal.IProposalVersion',
    ...              'data': {'adhocracy_core.sheets.document.IDocument': {
    ...                     'title': 'We need more pics!',
    ...                     'description': 'Or maybe just nicer ones?',
    ...                     'picture': pic_path,
    ...                     'elements': []},
    ...                  'adhocracy_core.sheets.versions.IVersionable': {
    ...                     'follows': [prop_v0_path]}},
    ...          'root_versions': [prop_v0_path]}
    >>> resp = testapp.post_json(prop_path, vers_data, headers=god_header)
    >>> prop_v1_path = resp.json["path"]
    >>> prop_v1_path
    'http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/VERSION_0000001/'

If we re-download the image metadata, we see that it is now attached to the
proposal version::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path).json
    >>> resp_data['data']['adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata']['attached_to']
    ['http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/VERSION_0000001/']


Replacing Assets
----------------

To upload a new version of an asset, the frontend sends a PUT request with
enctype="multipart/form-data" to the asset URL. The PUT request may contain
the same keys as a POST request used to create a new asset.

The `data:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData:data` key is required,
since the only use case for a PUT request is uploading a new version of the
binary data (everything else is just metadata).

The `data:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetMetadata:mime_type` may be
omitted if the new MIME type is the same as the old one.

If the `content_type` key is given, is *must* be identical to the current
content type of the asset (changing the type of resources is generally not
allowed).

Only those who have *editor* rights for an asset can PUT a replacement asset.
If an image is replaced, all its cropped sizes will be automatically
updated as well.

Since assets aren't versioned, the old binary "blob" will be physically and
irreversibly discarded once a replacement blob is uploaded.

Lets replace the uploaded python with another one::

    >>> upload_files = [('data:adhocracy_core.sheets.asset.IAssetData:data',
    ...     'python2.jpg', open('docs/source/_static/python2.jpg', 'rb').read())]
    >>> request_body = {
    ...    'content_type': 'adhocracy_core.resources.sample_image.ISampleImage',
    ...    'data:adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata:mime_type':
    ...        'image/jpeg'}
    >>> resp_data = testapp.put(pic_path, request_body,
    ...             headers=god_header, upload_files=upload_files).json

If we download the image metadata again, we see that filename and size have
changed accordingly::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path).json
    >>> pprint(resp_data['data']['adhocracy_core.sheets.sample_image.ISampleImageMetadata'])
    {'attached_to': ['http://localhost/adhocracy/ProposalPool/kommunismus/VERSION_0000001/'],
     'filename': 'python2.jpg',
     'mime_type': 'image/jpeg',
     'size': '112107'}

Predefined scaled+cropped views are automatically updated as well::

    >>> resp_data = testapp.get(pic_path + 'detail')
    >>> len(resp_data.body) > 10000
    True
    >>> len(resp_data.body) == detail_size
    False


Deleting and Hiding Assets
--------------------------

Assets can be deleted or censored ("hidden") in the usual way, see
:ref:`deletion`.
